
  I remember when I was a managing director in derivatives trading at Bank of America looking for candidates to hire. Sure, my team and I would look at the normal factors such as education, experience and trading track record. However, maybe because my team was such an eclectic crew (or maybe because I was young and very slightly deranged), we had to consider other factors. We talked about how a guy's personality might fit in  and, yes, age came up.   
  (Read more: Strippers, dwarfs & coke: The real Wall Street) 
  We found ourselves asking things like: "ls he as hungry as a 25-year old?" "How would he feel about having a boss 10 years younger than him?" "Would he stay until 11pm if needed or would he feel he was too good for that?" "Is he too set in his ways, to be taught the way I want things done?" "Can he handle the new technology?" "Can he handle a boss that one minute is yelling at someone about a multimillion-dollar loss and the next minute organizing a Chicken McNugget eating contest?" 
  If you're too experienced, it can work against you in other ways. If you have held a senior position, the jobs you can be hired for are far fewer than lower-level jobs. And you won't be offered a job that you're overqualified for. The reason being that 1) You either won't be motivated enough to do that job or 2) you will be a threat to the person hiring you.  
  Wall Street is insanely competitive and the last person you want to hire is someone you think would be in direct competition for your job.   
  (Read more: 10 tips for young Wall Street: Turney Duff) 
  I'll admit, when I was a young, smart-mouth trader in my 20s, I used to tease the older guys. 
  I used to ask them, "What was it like trading during the crash?" Then the older trader would tell me his war story about Black Monday in 1987 when the Dow dropped almost 23 percent. Then, halfway through his story I would interrupt him and say, "No. I meant the crash of 1929." We both had a good laugh about it but now that I'm older, it's slightly less funny. (And for the record, HR never found it funny  I was actually warned once about jokes like these that could be construed as discrimination.) 
