
  In case you missed it, Stephen Elop, the executive VP of Microsoft's Devices & Services business unit, recently buried the announcement of a 12,000-person layoff in an embarrassingly jargon-filled memo which began with a cheery "Hello there." 

 Read MoreMicrosoft shares climb after news of job cuts 
 In a previous role as director of human resources, I often had to help executives convey unwelcome news.  Some were naturally good communicators, others were teachable, and a few were  ... well, as clueless as Stephen Elop.  But since bad examples are frequently instructive, let's see what we can learn from him. 
 Using Mr. Elop's memo as a model, here's how to write a crappy, insensitive announcement to people who are looking to you for leadership: 
 1. Play hide-and-seek with the bad news. The Microsoft memo is over 1,100 words long (for comparison, this article is about 680 words).  But not until you have read 75 percent of the text (starting at word 843) do you discover the main point: "an estimated reduction of 12,500 employees over the next year."   
 Did Mr. Elop really believe that if he saved this disturbing news for the end, no one would notice? 
 2. Pile on so much jargon that no one knows what you're saying. There is normal language, then there is executive-speak. For example: " Whereas the hardware business of phones within Nokia was an end unto itself, within Microsoft all our devices are intended to embody the finest of Microsoft's digital work and digital life experiences, while accruing value to Microsoft's overall strategy." 
 Read MoreMost shorted stocks ahead of earnings 
 Say what?  Effective leaders remember how to talk like regular folks.   
 3. When you run out of jargon, just make stuff up. A few Elopian examples  "our role is to light up this strategy," "must be accomplished within an appropriate financial envelope," "we will be the confluence of the best of Microsoft's applications." 
 If you want to be creative, write a novel. But when communicating with employees, you need to be clear.    
 4. Minimize the human impact because it's such a downer. After announcing the anticipated termination of 12,500 employees, Mr. Elop states, "These decisions are difficult for the team."  Really?  That's how you sum up the pain and suffering of thousands of people losing their jobs?   
In fact, we can't even be sure that this sentence refers to those who are being laid off. He might actually be alluding to the "team" which made these decisions  but let's hope not, because that would be really sick.  
 5. Ignore professional advice. Given that Microsoft is a huge corporation populated by professionals of every stripe, the odds are good that Mr. Elop began this effort with a draft created by someone experienced in employee communications. The remnants of this draft are still evident in a few clear, concise sentences.   
 For example, "It is particularly important to recognize that the role of phones within Microsoft is different than it was within Nokia." That actually makes sense.  But considering the final product, it appears that Mr. Elop unfortunately chose to take matters into his own hands.   
 Read MoreWaaaah! How to deal with childish behavior at work 
 So if Microsoft CEO Nadella turns out to be the rare exec who actually gives honest appraisals to his leadership team, hopefully he will say something like this to EVP Elop: "Stephen, you are great at product development and strategy, but when it comes to employee relations, you lack either compassion or sensitivity. Or perhaps both. To become an effective leader, you will need to improve in that area."   
 Then, as part of Mr. Elop's development plan, perhaps he will also include a course in business writing.     
 Read MoreThe 12 types of people on Wall Street  
