
  Nearly two dozen companies reported softening trends in Texas in the September quarter, or said they expected weakness to hit over the next several quarters. Several companies with exposure to the Lone Star State also cited negative effects from the weather and the weak Mexican peso on the border economy. 
  Consumer companies talking about the Texas economy include: 
  Michael Kors Holdings Chairman and CEO John Idol, who told analysts during the luxury retailer's Nov. 4 earnings call that "all of us are now being impacted in parts of Texas because of oil prices there. That's a little bit less tourist, but some of it's related to the Mexicans shopping across border with the peso to the dollar."   Dallas-based Brinker International, which is struggling with sales given that about 30 percent of company-operated Chili's restaurants are in energy states such as Texas. "The whole state is soft," said President and CEO Wyman Roberts. "This isn't something we're experiencing in isolation.  The whole industry is a little more challenged in Texas than in other parts of the country right now."   "Texas softened up a little bit," Denny's President and CEO John Miller told analysts during the restaurant company's Nov. 3 earnings call. "You see that falloff in the smaller areas, Midland, Odessa and the smaller towns."   The state of Texas represents approximately 18 percent of rent-to-own giant Aaron's sales, and company President Steve Michaels told analysts on an Oct. 30 call that "stores across the state are experiencing negative impacts."   "There is a very slight impact in certain Texas markets," Group 1 Automotive  President and CEO Earl Hesterberg told analysts during the auto dealer's Oct. 27 call. "We have a BMW dealership in downtown Houston that services the energy company headquarters.  That dealership has been impacted."   "West Texas is going to continue to be tough," said Dennis Fink, CFO of Haverty Furniture. He told analysts listening to the retailer's Oct. 29 earnings call that "Texas was our hottest state we had, and now it is a bit of a drag."   About one-fourth of La Quinta Holdings' hotel rooms are located in the Texas market. "Texas was impacted not only by the oil business but the biblical rain that we've experienced in the region," said Keith Cline, interim CEO of Texas-based hotel chain.    Tempur Sealy International CEO Scott Thompson said during the mattress maker's Oct. 29 conference call that the company has been through three major downturns in the oil business and "you don't feel it immediately; it takes a while. Although the third quarter  came in strong, I would expect going forward that we would begin to feel some weakness in those marketplaces over the next few quarters."   
  While some casual and higher-end restaurant chains are hurting in Texas, fast-food chains such as Sonic and Jack in the Box report they are still seeing positive sales trends in the state. "We're seeing a trade-down effect where some people are trading down from casual dining to quick service dining," said Wedbush's Basham.
